# This file was autogenerated by uv via the following command:
#    uv pip compile requirements-dev.in -o requirements-dev.txt
aiohttp==3.9.3
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aioresponses
aioresponses==0.7.6
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
aiosignal==1.2.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
annotated-types==0.5.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   pydantic
argcomplete==2.0.0
    # via datamodel-code-generator
asgiref==3.7.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   django
async-timeout==4.0.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
    #   redis
attrs==23.2.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
black==23.9.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   -r requirements-dev.in
    #   datamodel-code-generator
boto3-stubs[s3]==1.34.84
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
botocore-stubs==1.34.84
    # via boto3-stubs
certifi==2019.11.28
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   requests
chardet==5.2.0
    # via prance
charset-normalizer==2.1.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   requests
click==8.1.7
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   black
colorama==0.4.4
    # via pytest-watch
coverage[toml]==5.5
    # via pytest-cov
datamodel-code-generator==0.25.2
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
django==4.2.11
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   django-stubs
    #   django-stubs-ext
django-stubs==4.2.7
    # via
    #   -r requirements-dev.in
    #   djangorestframework-stubs
django-stubs-ext==5.0.0
    # via django-stubs
djangorestframework-stubs==3.14.5
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
dnspython==2.2.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   email-validator
docopt==0.6.2
    # via pytest-watch
email-validator==2.0.0.post2
    # via pydantic
exceptiongroup==1.2.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   pytest
faker==17.5.0
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
fakeredis[lua]==2.11.0
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
flaky==3.7.0
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
freezegun==1.2.2
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
frozenlist==1.3.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
    #   aiosignal
genson==1.2.2
    # via datamodel-code-generator
icdiff==2.0.5
    # via pytest-icdiff
idna==2.8
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   email-validator
    #   requests
    #   yarl
inflect==5.6.2
    # via datamodel-code-generator
iniconfig==1.1.1
    # via pytest
isort==5.2.2
    # via datamodel-code-generator
jinja2==3.1.3
    # via datamodel-code-generator
jsonschema==4.20.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   openapi-schema-validator
    #   openapi-spec-validator
jsonschema-path==0.3.2
    # via openapi-spec-validator
jsonschema-specifications==2023.12.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   jsonschema
    #   openapi-schema-validator
lazy-object-proxy==1.10.0
    # via openapi-spec-validator
lupa==1.14.1
    # via fakeredis
markupsafe==2.1.5
    # via jinja2
multidict==6.0.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
    #   yarl
mypy==1.10.0
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
mypy-baseline==0.7.0
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
mypy-boto3-s3==1.34.65
    # via boto3-stubs
mypy-extensions==1.0.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   -r requirements-dev.in
    #   black
    #   mypy
openapi-schema-validator==0.6.2
    # via openapi-spec-validator
openapi-spec-validator==0.7.1
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
packaging==23.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   -r requirements-dev.in
    #   black
    #   datamodel-code-generator
    #   prance
    #   pytest
parameterized==0.9.0
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
pathable==0.4.3
    # via jsonschema-path
pathspec==0.12.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   black
platformdirs==3.11.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   black
pluggy==0.13.1
    # via pytest
pprintpp==0.4.0
    # via pytest-icdiff
prance==23.6.21.0
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
pydantic[email]==2.5.3
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   datamodel-code-generator
pydantic-core==2.14.6
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   pydantic
pytest==7.4.4
    # via
    #   -r requirements-dev.in
    #   pytest-asyncio
    #   pytest-cov
    #   pytest-django
    #   pytest-env
    #   pytest-icdiff
    #   pytest-mock
    #   pytest-split
    #   pytest-watch
    #   syrupy
pytest-asyncio==0.21.1
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
pytest-cov==4.1.0
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
pytest-django==4.5.2
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
pytest-env==0.8.2
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
pytest-icdiff==0.6
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
pytest-mock==3.11.1
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
pytest-split==0.8.1
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
pytest-watch==4.2.0
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
python-dateutil==2.8.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   -r requirements-dev.in
    #   faker
    #   freezegun
pyyaml==6.0.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   datamodel-code-generator
    #   jsonschema-path
    #   responses
redis==4.5.4
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   fakeredis
referencing==0.31.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   jsonschema
    #   jsonschema-path
    #   jsonschema-specifications
requests==2.32.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   djangorestframework-stubs
    #   jsonschema-path
    #   prance
    #   responses
responses==0.23.1
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
rfc3339-validator==0.1.4
    # via openapi-schema-validator
rpds-py==0.16.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   jsonschema
    #   referencing
ruamel-yaml==0.18.6
    # via prance
ruamel-yaml-clib==0.2.8
    # via ruamel-yaml
ruff==0.4.3
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   prance
    #   python-dateutil
    #   rfc3339-validator
sortedcontainers==2.4.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   fakeredis
sqlparse==0.4.4
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   django
syrupy==4.6.0
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
toml==0.10.1
    # via
    #   coverage
    #   datamodel-code-generator
tomli==2.0.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   black
    #   django-stubs
    #   mypy
    #   pytest
types-awscrt==0.20.9
    # via botocore-stubs
types-freezegun==1.1.10
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
types-markdown==3.3.9
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
types-python-dateutil==2.8.3
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
types-pytz==2023.3.0.0
    # via
    #   -r requirements-dev.in
    #   django-stubs
    #   types-tzlocal
types-pyyaml==6.0.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements-dev.in
    #   django-stubs
    #   djangorestframework-stubs
    #   responses
types-redis==4.3.20
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
types-requests==2.26.1
    # via
    #   -r requirements-dev.in
    #   djangorestframework-stubs
types-retry==0.9.9.4
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
types-s3transfer==0.10.1
    # via boto3-stubs
types-tzlocal==5.1.0.1
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
typing-extensions==4.7.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   asgiref
    #   black
    #   boto3-stubs
    #   django-stubs
    #   django-stubs-ext
    #   djangorestframework-stubs
    #   mypy
    #   mypy-boto3-s3
    #   pydantic
    #   pydantic-core
urllib3==1.26.18
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   requests
    #   responses
watchdog==2.1.8
    # via pytest-watch
yarl==1.7.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
